sophomore/first/SOCECON 10/Midterm/Global Divide.md, before:

#SOCECON10 
# Global Divide
---
## Mechanisms of Global Divide
#### What are the Mechanisms of Global Divide?
- Human Development Report
- Bottom Billion
- Global Digital Divide
## Global North
#### What is the Global North?
- Global North is a region in which the economically developed and wealthy countries reside in, many of whom are former colonizers
## Global South
#### What is the Global South?
- Global South is a region where usually the low-income and the politically and culturally marginalized countries reside in, many of whom are former colonies
## Human Development Report
#### What is the Human Development Report?
- Human Development Report combines indicators of income, wealth, and well-being
	- The richest one-fifth of the world's population consumes 86% of the world's good and services
	- The poorest one-fifth of the world's population consumes 1.3% of the world's good and services

## Global Multidimensional Poverty Index or MPI
#### What is the Global Multidimensional Poverty Index or MPI?
- Global Multidimensional Poverty Index is an international measure of acute multidimensional poverty covering over 100 developing country
- Global Multidimensional Poverty Index complements traditional monetary poverty measures by capturing acute deprivations in health, education, and living standards that a person face simultaneously
## Bottom Billion
#### Who coined Bottom Billion?
- Bottom Billion was coined by Peter Collier in 2007
#### What is Bottom Billion?
- Bottom Billion refers to countries with majority of its population have experienced little to no income growth since then 1980s and 1990s

## Digital Divide
#### What is Digital Divide?
- Digital Divide refers to the gap or disparity in access to and use of digital technologies and the internet between different groups of people or communities
#### What is an Example of Digital Divide?
- Broadband Internet access is a basic necessity that only 35% of the population in developing coutnies

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-10-06 09:38:35
Affected files:
sophomore/first/SOCECON 10/Midterm/Asian Regionalism.md
sophomore/first/SOCECON 10/Midterm/Global Divide.md

sophomore/first/SOCECON 10/Midterm/Global Divide.md, after:

#SOCECON10 
# Global Divide
---
## Mechanisms of Global Divide
#### What are the Mechanisms of Global Divide?
- Human Development Report
- Bottom Billion
- Global Digital Divide
## Global North
#### What is the Global North?
- Global North is a region in which the economically developed and wealthy countries reside in, many of whom are former colonizers
## Global South
#### What is the Global South?
- Global South is a region where usually the low-income and the politically and culturally marginalized countries reside in, many of whom are former colonies
## Human Development Report
#### What is the Human Development Report?
- Human Development Report combines indicators of income, wealth, and well-being
	- The richest one-fifth of the world's population consumes 86% of the world's good and services
	- The poorest one-fifth of the world's population consumes 1.3% of the world's good and services

## Global Multidimensional Poverty Index or MPI
#### What is the Global Multidimensional Poverty Index or MPI?
- Global Multidimensional Poverty Index is an international measure of acute multidimensional poverty covering over 100 developing country
- Global Multidimensional Poverty Index complements traditional monetary poverty measures by capturing acute deprivations in health, education, and living standards that a person face simultaneously
## Bottom Billion
#### Who coined Bottom Billion?
- Bottom Billion was coined by Peter Collier in 2007
#### What is Bottom Billion?
- Bottom Billion refers to countries with majority of its population have experienced little to no income growth since then 1980s and 1990s

## Digital Divide
#### What is Digital Divide?
- Digital Divide refers to the gap or disparity in access to and use of digital technologies and the internet between different groups of people or communities
#### What is an Example of Digital Divide?
- Broadband Internet access is a basic necessity that only 35% of the population in developing countries has access to (80% in advanced economies).
#### What causes Digital Divide?
1. Political Power
2. Economic Dependency
3. Importation or Exportation of Resources

## Collier's Four Traps
#### What is the Conflict Trap?
- Conflict Trap is where a region or country becomes caught in a cycle of conflict which makes it difficult to achieve peace and stability which prevent the country or region from developing
#### What is the Natural Resource Trap?
- Natural Resource Trap is where a country experience economic and political problems despite having an abundance of natural resources
#### What is the Trap of being Landlocked with Bad Neighbors?
- Trap of being Landlocked with Bad Neighbors is where a country's surrounding neighbors pose a threat to security, economic, or political aspects of a country which may hamper development and stability
#### What is the Bad Governance Trap?
- Bad Governance Trap is a where a country or region has a bad government with bad policies that inhibits the growth of the economy and potentially destroy the economy
