sophomore/first/SOCECON 10/Midterm/Global Economy.md, before:

#SOCECON10 
# Preface
---
#### What is Economics?
- Economics is the social science that studies how people choose to use limited resources to satisfy their unlimited wants and needs.
# Global Economy
---
#### What kinds of things cross international borders?
- The things that cross international borders are: **Trade** (Goods and Services), **Capital** (Money and Investment), **People** (Immigrants, Refugees, and Tourists), **Communication**, **Culture** (Art, Music, and Cuisine), and **Ideas.**
## Economic Globalization
#### What is Economic Globalization?
- Economic Globalization is the growing economic linkages at the global level
## Multinational Companies
#### What are Multinational Companies?
- Multinational Companies are corporate organization that produces goods or service in more than one country
## Colonialism
#### What is Colonialism?
- **Colonialism** is a where one country takes control of a geographic area that involves the settlement of settlers.
	- Colonialism comes from the Latin word *colonus,* meaning farmer.
	- Colonialism is usually the consequence of Imperialism
	- Colonialism's power relationship still exists in the form of Global Financial Institutions
## Imperialism
#### What is Imperialism
- **Imperialism** refers to the various methods that one country employs to gain political, economic, and military control over another country or geographic area.

## Galleon Trade
#### What is Galleon Trade?

## Post-Colonial Era
#### What is the Post-Colonial Era?
- Post-Colonial Era is the era when colonial masters depart from their former colonies
	- Post-Colonial Era is usually when nations define their borders based on the borders they had when they were a colony
## Silk Road
#### What is the Silk Road?
- Silk Road is an ancient network of pathways that spanned from China, the Middle East, and Europe and is the oldest known international trade route
	- Silk Road, despite being a international trade route, was not global since it possesses no ocean routes that reaches the American continent
## One Belt One Road
#### What is the One Belt One Road?
- One Belt One Road is a Chinese project that aims to create a global trade route that was as successful or more successful than the silk road
## Bretton Woods System
#### When was Bretton Woods System first discussed?
- Bretton Woods System was first discussed in a 3 week meeting in July 1944 at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire
#### What was the focus or background of the Bretton Woods System?
- Bretton Woods System aimed to reduce trade barriers and creating conditions necessary for the free flow of money and investment
#### What were the 5 Key Elements of the Bretton Woods System?
1. Each participating state would establish a par value for its currency expressed in terms of gold
2. The official monetary authority of each country would agree to exchange its own currency for those of other countries at the established exchange rates, plus or minus one percent margin
3. International Monetary Fund to establish, stabilize, and oversee exchange rates
4. Member states agreed to eliminate all restrictions on the use of its currency for international trade
5. Entire system was based on the US dollar
#### When did the Bretton Woods System die?
- Bretton Woods System died on August 15, 1971 due to President Richard Nixon removing US off the gold standard cause devaluation of the US dollar
## John Maynard Keynes
#### Who is John Maynard Keynes?
- John Maynard Keynes was a British Economist that believed that an economic crises occurs not because of the absence of money but rather the absence of the flow of money
- John Maynard Keynes influenced the Bretton Woods System
## Kyensianism
#### What is Kyensianism?
- Kyensianism is a system government intervention in the economy can help mitigate economic downturns and stabilize a country's economic performance
#### When was the high point of Kyensianism?
- The High Point of Kyensianism was in the Mid 1940s to the early 1970s
#### Who criticized Kyensianism?
- Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman argued that government intervention in economies distrt the proper function of the market
## Financial Institutions
#### What are the Financial Institutions of the World?
- International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or World Bank which was responsible for funding postwar reconstruction projects
- International Monetary Fund which is the global lender of last resort to prevent individual countries from spiraling into credit crises
#### Who controls these Financial Institutions?
- World Bank and IMF is disproportionately controlled by rich core countries, make loans to countries in the periphery and semi-periphery
## Neocolonialism
#### What is Neocolonialism?
- Neocolonialism is a global power relationship that involves economic exploitation by multinational corporations

## Wallerstein's World Systems Theory
#### What is Wallerstein's World Systems Theory?
- Wallerstein's World systems Theory suggests that the prosperity of some nations and the poverty and dependency of other countries is intentional as a result of the global economic system
#### What are the Forms of Economic Equality?
- Core countries are dominant capitalist countries characterized by high levels of industrialization and urbanization
- Peripheral Countries are dependent on core countries for capital and have very little industrialization and urbanization
- Semi-peripheral Countries are less developed than core countries but are more developed than peripheral nations
## Globalization Effects on National Governments
#### How does globalization affect Governments?
- National Governments became more connected and interdependent economically, politically, socially
- External Pres

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-10-06 09:18:35
Affected files:
sophomore/first/SOCECON 10/Midterm/Global Divide.md
sophomore/first/SOCECON 10/Midterm/Global Economy.md

sophomore/first/SOCECON 10/Midterm/Global Economy.md, after:

#SOCECON10 
# Preface
---
#### What is Economics?
- Economics is the social science that studies how people choose to use limited resources to satisfy their unlimited wants and needs.
# Global Economy
---
#### What kinds of things cross international borders?
- The things that cross international borders are: **Trade** (Goods and Services), **Capital** (Money and Investment), **People** (Immigrants, Refugees, and Tourists), **Communication**, **Culture** (Art, Music, and Cuisine), and **Ideas.**
## Economic Globalization
#### What is Economic Globalization?
- Economic Globalization is the growing economic linkages at the global level
## Multinational Companies
#### What are Multinational Companies?
- Multinational Companies are corporate organization that produces goods or service in more than one country
## Colonialism
#### What is Colonialism?
- **Colonialism** is a where one country takes control of a geographic area that involves the settlement of settlers.
	- Colonialism comes from the Latin word *colonus,* meaning farmer.
	- Colonialism is usually the consequence of Imperialism
	- Colonialism's power relationship still exists in the form of Global Financial Institutions
## Imperialism
#### What is Imperialism
- **Imperialism** refers to the various methods that one country employs to gain political, economic, and military control over another country or geographic area.

## Galleon Trade
#### What is Galleon Trade?

## Post-Colonial Era
#### What is the Post-Colonial Era?
- Post-Colonial Era is the era when colonial masters depart from their former colonies
	- Post-Colonial Era is usually when nations define their borders based on the borders they had when they were a colony
## Silk Road
#### What is the Silk Road?
- Silk Road is an ancient network of pathways that spanned from China, the Middle East, and Europe and is the oldest known international trade route
	- Silk Road, despite being a international trade route, was not global since it possesses no ocean routes that reaches the American continent
## One Belt One Road
#### What is the One Belt One Road?
- One Belt One Road is a Chinese project that aims to create a global trade route that was as successful or more successful than the silk road
## Bretton Woods System
#### When was Bretton Woods System first discussed?
- Bretton Woods System was first discussed in a 3 week meeting in July 1944 at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire
#### What was the focus or background of the Bretton Woods System?
- Bretton Woods System aimed to reduce trade barriers and creating conditions necessary for the free flow of money and investment
#### What were the 5 Key Elements of the Bretton Woods System?
1. Each participating state would establish a par value for its currency expressed in terms of gold
2. The official monetary authority of each country would agree to exchange its own currency for those of other countries at the established exchange rates, plus or minus one percent margin
3. International Monetary Fund to establish, stabilize, and oversee exchange rates
4. Member states agreed to eliminate all restrictions on the use of its currency for international trade
5. Entire system was based on the US dollar
#### When did the Bretton Woods System die?
- Bretton Woods System died on August 15, 1971 due to President Richard Nixon removing US off the gold standard cause devaluation of the US dollar
## John Maynard Keynes
#### Who is John Maynard Keynes?
- John Maynard Keynes was a British Economist that believed that an economic crises occurs not because of the absence of money but rather the absence of the flow of money
- John Maynard Keynes influenced the Bretton Woods System
## Kyensianism
#### What is Kyensianism?
- Kyensianism is a system government intervention in the economy can help mitigate economic downturns and stabilize a country's economic performance
#### When was the high point of Kyensianism?
- The High Point of Kyensianism was in the Mid 1940s to the early 1970s
#### Who criticized Kyensianism?
- Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman argued that government intervention in economies distrt the proper function of the market
## Financial Institutions
#### What are the Financial Institutions of the World?
- International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or World Bank which was responsible for funding postwar reconstruction projects
- International Monetary Fund which is the global lender of last resort to prevent individual countries from spiraling into credit crises
#### Who controls these Financial Institutions?
- World Bank and IMF is disproportionately controlled by rich core countries, make loans to countries in the periphery and semi-periphery
## Neocolonialism
#### What is Neocolonialism?
- Neocolonialism is a global power relationship that involves economic exploitation by multinational corporations

## Wallerstein's World Systems Theory
#### What is Wallerstein's World Systems Theory?
- Wallerstein's World systems Theory suggests that the prosperity of some nations and the poverty and dependency of other countries is intentional as a result of the global economic system
#### What are the Forms of Economic Equality?
- Core countries are dominant capitalist countries characterized by high levels of industrialization and urbanization
- Peripheral Countries are dependent on core countries for capital and have very little industrialization and urbanization
- Semi-peripheral Countries are less developed than core countries but are more developed than peripheral nations
## Globalization Effects on National Governments
#### How does globalization affect Governments?
- National Governments became more connected and interdependent economically, politically, socially
- External Pressures to compel conformity to global standards
- Bestowing legitimacy on a state government is an important function of globalization
- Internal pressures for change come from citizens and other state actors such as institutions and NGOs
## World Governance Indicators
#### What are World Governance Indicators?
- World Governance Indicators are a set of composite indicators governance published by World Bank
#### What are the Size Dimensions of Governance according to the WGI?
- Voice and Accountability 
- Political Stability and Absence of Violence or Terrorisnm
- Government Effectiveness
- Regulatory Quality
- Rule of Law
- Control of Corruption
